until everyone's gone or as long as we
want to
um so come on up uh to the if anyone's
got any questions on anything sales
marketing Venture Capital markets
multiples
they have a question about sales and
marketing so help me understand where
SDR should report it to like should be
their report to head of sales or head of
marketing because this is technically a
demand generation job sorry I I asked a
question who should report to what SDR
SDR is this a good question marketing
girl where should sdrs report to
um
so let me give you a tactical answer and
then a strategic answer the Tactical
answer
um is in the early days and maybe later
sgr should report to whoever has the
most experience managing sdrs it's that
simple
um there are a lot of sales leaders who
have only done in Mount okay they have
only responded to leads they should not
manage sdrs if humanly possible they
almost all fail they hire the wrong
people they don't have the patience they
don't know what to do sdrs need
typically especially unless you're lucky
enough to get a seasoned one which we
could talk about and that's a gift if
you can find someone that wants to be a
lifelong SDR they need a lot of
attention they often have ADD they need
a lot of oversight and a lot of training
and they often quit after six to eight
to eight months so you have to recycle
the engine and
of ahead of sales of EP sales that has
never managed a high turnover brand new
team will just they'll melt okay
um on the flip side marketers whether
you call them scrs or bdrs more and more
demand gen marketers have their own
uh
uh SDR team right but the reality is
most marketers use them to qualify leads
they don't usually use them for raw
outbound some do some are great at
combining ABM with outbound and those
marketers are gems that really run a
classic sales driven out but mostly they
don't run the full Playbook they use it
to qualify your leads intelligently
before they pass them to sales so
neither that's not perfect either a
marketer that's only done part of the
Esther but I'd much rather have a
marketer that's managed three marketing
qualification bdrs and a sales person
that's never done it so that's the
Tactical and you know that's the answer
whoever actually knows how to do it
should do it
the Strategic answer is later many folks
end up with two teams they end up with a
classic outbound team that reports to
sales
that does true pure outbound right like
Sam blonde talked about in the first
brex session and then marketing owns its
own number and leads
um and they often will have their own
team of bdrs that qualify their own
leads so that marketing's leads are
higher and you'll often end up with two
different teams they may both be called
sjs maybe called bdrs or sdrs but
they'll both end up with their own sort
of teams thank you and either like I
think like a senior SDR because most
sdrs they want to it's a dream if you
know one let me know I'll hire them
myself
um I'm hoping I'm hoping uh I talk about
this a lot uh Lars Nielsen who runs
outbound at snowflake he did a great
session at Saturday I know so you should
watch it on the video we were talking
about it everyone that's been doing this
for a while hopes that this will become
a new path that sdrs will that better
paid more seasoned sdrs will stay in the
position longer instead of you know the
classic SDR in the US I don't know exact
comps in in Europe especially or Central
Europe and slower but in the US a
classic comp package for next year even
today might be a 60 20 package an 80k OT
60 base 20 20 variable for setting up
appointments or Revenue commits and um
look in certain parts of the US that's
good money and other parts of the US in
New York or SF it's pretty terrible
money right depending on what it is and
so they're looking at the AES making 140
OTS or 200 and they all want to be
promoted in three weeks right the
ambitious ones and most folks have not
really built a path where an SDR that's
great can make 100 120 140 160 and so at
least you might take a pause and you may
say you know what I'm pretty good at
penetrating I'm pretty good at getting
discussions and I don't want to be a
closer I don't want to deal with all the
procurement and the drama and the 11th
let me just be an opener and if you
think about it if you build a
spreadsheet of cost of sales and
everything if you're an opener is really
good you should be able to pay them
close to as much of a closer right
um but we're not there yet for some odd
reason in SAS that has not developed in
our culture but once in a while you can
find one and uh it it is as a Founder it
is worth hunting out these unicorns
these rare people not not valuation it's
part of the job right it's not to hire
the mediocre or the average it is and if
you can find someone that has been an
SDR or an outbound for more than three
or four years and genuinely you can just
smell the passion coming out of their
pores that they want to do this give
them talk to them recruit them and give
them a pass to say look you're not going
to be stuck with with a with a second
tier comp package for your whole life
like I'm going to give you a commit you
bring in you know a classic a classic
way to measure an SDR you can do
appointments but really the classic
metric is an SDR needs to bring is needs
to bring in deals that that close at 2
million two million right and say look
to someone great you got to do that you
do three million I'll increase your comp
fifty percent you do four million I will
double your comp like you could have an
unlimited com like you do with an AE and
a great sgr we had even one on our
saster team that did five million in a
year why shouldn't that person make two
hundred thousand dollars why do they
have to be stuck making a 60 plus 25
they don't right so um anyway I only
know a few like this I wish there were a
hundred I I hope there are a thousand
but if you can find one you never let
them go right it's it's a joke yeah
all right g'day Jason Jimmy smart um
sassa's been on bucket list for me I've
come in from Australia and certainly
didn't disappoint so thank you thanks
for coming
um so my question is a bit of a
two-parter so and you started to talk to
Edith in one of the earlier sessions
about you know the space that we play in
it's high stress it's long hours and
with that can be a challenge around
managing mental health how do we get a
sustainable output that means we're
burning out as Founders as ecosystem
operators
um being on both sides of that coin do
you have any advice as far as mechanisms
or things that you found to work as far
as you know finding that sustainability
and mental health in the space that we
work in how many employees do you have
three
okay here's my advice here's my advice
let's step back for a minute
folks overall in Tech and I don't mean
to sound like a fuddy-duddy or someone
that's been doing this for a while
and I know some people think this is uh
this is I try to mostly be positive but
I'm going to say one thing because it is
so important as Leaders folks in
folks have gotten lazy as frack
lazy as Frac csms don't want to deal
with headaches they don't show up
everyone wants everything automated When
We complain to csms that are on our
accounts they hide now they used to
solve your problem they used to get on
the phone they used to want critical
feedback now if they don't get a 10 they
don't want to talk to you they don't
want to fix anything in fact many times
say all they want is an upsell or they
threaten you on the renewal csm's
threaten you hey we're going to turn
your product off if you don't pay 50
that sucks okay that's lazy um so many
marketers you heard Sterling about
talking about sales and marketing from
Divi this morning so many marketers
don't want to own any lead commit
anymore they don't want to own any
number so many folks in marketing want
to hide in the middle of infographics
and soft goals and everyone's gotten
grouchy because it's been a long time
and then
um and I'm going to come back and ask
your answer question and then things got
worse in 2021 for a couple reasons right
when the truth is when everyone got
distributed and worked from home that
worked really well for certain types of
people very motivated folks senior folks
and honestly some a lot of folks worked
even less they really did work three
jobs and they really did work 10 hours a
week and it's true it's any and anyone
that says otherwise is diluting or is
mediocre anyone that says it isn't true
is mediocre anyone that's great knows in
bigger startups tons of people did not
work in 2021 in general because we're
distributed and then even worse things
got easy in 2021. so people worked even
less sales would it never got really
easy and but it's so much easier than
two years before or two years after that
folks phoned it in they phoned it in on
nrr they phoned it in in marketing and
to some extent they phoned it in in
sales because they didn't want to talk
to four stakeholders they didn't want to
convince the CFO a budget they want to
do a one-call close and so everyone got
lazy and I actually I worry that there's
a whole generation
of folks that will never get unlazy that
we almost and I know this sounds crazy I
almost feel like though as leaders for
some of us we have to start from scratch
we either have to hire brand new people
that haven't been trained in the
horrible ways from late 20 20 to the
beginning of 22 prior brand new people
or higher folks that have been around
long enough that they remember when
sales was hard they remember when there
were three stakeholders they remember
one of deals took six months to close
they remember when competition was
stressful they remember when Venture
Capital didn't come out of the out of
the sky
right people got so spoiled not not
everybody but so many folks got spoiled
by Venture Capital being Unlimited in
2021 that they lost all discipline too
okay so I'm worried that everything has
gotten worse and that we have bred a
generation of you know I know this
sounds almost terrible to say but a
generation of not folks in this room but
of just lazy people that need to come
out of the system right and uh you know
the way Elon Musk handle it it's very
toxic right I mean but Twitter still
runs with a quarter 20 of the people it
did okay maybe the maybe the content is
more toxic but sight still seems to be
up
um we're all kind of like that okay so
what do you what do you do is with this
but we all want balance we don't we we
do want to be balanced but we that does
we don't want people to work 10 hours a
week
right
um you know we hear sales reps now
complaining that they have quotas
because it's harder in 2023 they don't
want quotas anymore and just to clarify
particularly from my point of view I'm
probably talking from the founder
perspective and knowing that you know
whether you're fundraising whether
you're trying to keep the business
afloat whatever those challenges are
that you're facing they are persistent
they are ever present so it was probably
more at that angle no but here's so
here's my answer to all of this yeah
okay
and we all used to do this in the old
days when things were smaller your first
50 employees your first 50.
to be Pirates or Romantics
they have to be Pirates or romantic do
you know what I'm talking about these
are folks on your team that for reasons
that almost don't make sense living
lead startups right the ones that know
more about your product than you could
possibly imagine why right that that
that think that your weird type of
compliance product for the dairy
industry is the most interesting thing
that has ever happened on planet Earth
okay
um or these are folks that have never
worked in an empowering environment
because if you have under 50 everyone
should be an owner maybe not a VP or a
director everyone should be an owner
there's not a lot of redundancy sub 50
people so you'll take some folks who had
a terrible boss who were micromanaged
and you put them working for you I know
you're a great leader and they just fly
because they're freed from is free from
these these these shackles and
the mistake you make in the first 50 is
when you hire someone that looks good on
paper or they've made an infographic
before or they've done sales at brex or
Divi or other or launch Darker other
great folks have come but they're not a
pirate or romantic they don't they don't
they don't leap off that page and they
don't never work out
and in the old days only weird people
worked at startups it was so quirky when
I started my first startup you know my
dad didn't tell me not to do it but he
told me it was dumb idea da my startups
used to be a dumb idea right they were
so risky and when Starships became
mainstream no one thinks they're dumb
ideas anymore do they no one thinks it's
a dumb idea and there's that's good in
the sense that there's more humans but
it's bad because we lost we got normal
people
and you can't build your first 50 people
can't be normal people you'll fail
and then when you go from fifth when you
and then what's the break line and I've
asked a lot of CEOs this myself because
I'm learning always learning
and when other people say the same thing
some people say hey we always want our
first thousand employees to work 24 7
and be intense and never sleep and all
this but that's not possible the real
answer ends up being managers and
managers when you have two levels of
management
the reality is that you want to keep the
bar high but you have to expand you have
to expand what you do but until then you
know what I'm saying the Pirates are
medics and you've hired normal people
that want a normal job you do not run a
normal company you run an eight-person
startup don't hire normal people They
will fail yeah right and they can be
quirky and they can be from weird places
well I'll tell you one last story just
because our last I didn't totally get
this my first team at Adobe side you
know we we had almost all Pirates and
Romantics but I didn't know it at the
time but I remember I was at an early
dream Force
and this like six foot eight sales guy
and dream forces Salesforce is big event
it used to be everyone used to go now
it's a little bit more Niche he grabbed
me by my you know it's like a foot above
Me Maybe seven feet grabs and almost
pulls me up off the ground as I'm
walking out of the parking lot going to
my skoda I'm like hello he's like do you
work at Echo sign which was my company
that was like yeah do you know Joe
Coletti and I'm like yeah he's our sales
rep he's like I love Joe
I love Joe he loves your product so much
I love that guy right that's who you
need right and it turned out Joe and his
previous ass job was absolutely mid-pack
okay he was not the best rep at he
worked at a a third tier email marketing
company that actually ultimately failed
he was not top decile but he was smart
his parents were both doctors okay he
had not yet been successful but he knew
our products you know he knew our
product at a level that you know like
Edith talked about that ad Tech person
if you saw that that edges Joe was our
guy and the customers just loved him
right so you get that guy that pirate
romantic in sales and Magic happens and
he is told the same story and you put
the ordinary person in and they sell
nothing in the early days right but
later they they they're they do okay so
anyhow long-winded answer to Pirates and
the romantics are the only thing I
figured out how to answer this yeah and
then the rest of it works itself out the
Pirates of thermatics may work 50 hours
a week or 40 hours a week but their
output is so high
it's so high right and the ordinary
people that work 20 hours a week produce
a tenth of the output of the pirate that
works 40 to 50 right and they they'll
produce the balance I think cool thank
you
hi yeah um just kind of touched on it a
little bit there but there's obviously
like the environment that we're
operating in 2023 is so vastly different
2015 pretty much in the past at least
from my perspective
um I'm like a Founder that's
bootstrapped and wondered like you know
often when you're Googling like time to
bootstraps you can kind of get different
playbooks that are written in 2016 18
even 19. what do you think like the the
founder playbook in 2023 is considering
that you know so much has changed in two
years how does the playbook for
bootstrap Founders change yeah well the
good news is it's never changed because
you have no Capital it's never changed
um really the uh the the ones that raise
200 million and now can't raise a dollar
their playbook cheat let me tell you
their playbook has changed a lot okay it
really hasn't changed and
um I actually think in some look if if
you're not growing any longer in 2023
that's terrible right I actually think
2023 is the year of the efficient if
your growth is still pretty good and
you're bootstrapped you are not cool in
2021 you were lame him you're kind of
cool today
so higher like be so I'm going to tell
you this is one it's not where and then
I'll answer a question more specifically
now now is your time your window and it
won't last we will get drunk again
multiples will probably go up Venture
Capital will come back it always has and
you know people will only want to work
for unicorns again but there aren't now
unicorns are stupid today
right they're stupid like people don't
want to work for it but it will change
so now is your time to hire someone that
went to work for a unicorn that got laid
off and is bitter they're like you know
what now that I look back I got these
stock options at a two billion dollar
valuation even if I didn't get laid off
I was never going to make any money
because we were going to exit for 500
million so what's the point of having
options at 2 billion and they just want
to work for a good co and a good company
or they can be paid well and left alone
and they don't want to deal with that
that over funded unicorn crap so this is
a tactical advice the Strategic side is
this and I've written about this on
saster a few times
and there's a lot of examples that I've
written up you can see like atlassian
qualtrics and others that basically
bootstrap forever the reality is it
normalizes at about 10 million 8 to 10
million AR okay now you can't I don't
know if you saw Parker Conrad from
Rippling you know they've raised he's
burned and raised so much money you can
never catch up with him if you're
bootstrapped right but most normal SAS
companies when you hit 10 million in AR
if your margins are 80 or 90 if you're
real software that means you're getting
10 million of funding each year isn't it
it's enough 10 million especially if
you're going if you're going from 10 to
15 to 22 to 30 that that's enough to
hire enough people to start really
making it happen at 10 million and so
what does that mean what does it all
boil down to on average and I've written
up the the data and I'll give you an
example it usually takes bootstrapped
companies that go big that have
multi-billionaire outcomes another three
to four years longer than venture-backed
ones and that sucks okay it does suck I
mean if you heard did you go to hear
Daniel dines from uipath who was here he
was our second speaker you what's UI
path work today 30 billion over a
billionaire it took them 10 years to get
to 1 million in revenue and then he went
from 1 to 100 I think in three years or
two years 10 years and he had a little
bit a tiny bit of money but he called
himself boots he was bootstrapped for 10
years took him 10 years to get to a
million he didn't quit and then he grew
as fast as then he did raise money later
but he grew as fast as any Venture back
company once he got some in so an
extreme example to say that the answer
is
get to 8 to 10 million
realize it's going to take you to three
to four years longer Cry Me a River too
bad that's life okay raising Venture
Capital seem free in 2021 it ain't free
now if the costs are high your VCS want
their money back
um your valuation so I it's it people
thought venture capital is free it's not
free it's expensive and has a lot of
conditions you don't have those
conditions suck it up get get the extra
years get to 10 million growing at a
decent clip a decent clip and uh and
you'll do you'll do it will normalize
right
um
I'll give you one last story and then
maybe it's too much position today but I
invested I was in the first investor so
they did eventually raise some money in
a company
let's see let's say 20.
23 right yeah okay this company was
originally founded in 2004.
it went nine years ten years
bootstrapping started off as a services
company so bootstrap through services to
figure out how to build the software
finally built the software got to a
million in revenue and I invested okay
so it took them forever so now it's 2023
so that's I guess it's actually been 19
years
um and it took them the first 10 years
to get to that million and SAS Revenue
um and they they just signed a deal to
sell for 300 million dollars
okay and the founder is still now the
founders did raise money but they still
own almost half
that's worth it right
yeah I think it's pretty good yeah yeah
it's pretty good
um and it could be worth more but on a
on a as diluted basis they don't own
four percent they own half between the
two of them so but it did take them a
decade like Daniel did at uipath and
um but once they got and then it was
very stressful so then they I'll I know
it's a long story but it might be awful
then then they never raised money I gave
them some money and then they made the
mistake that a lot of bootstrappers made
is they de-bootstrapped too quickly
because they didn't have the DNA and I
gave them my three and a half million
dollars
and they they and they didn't intend to
but they spent it all like in a year
okay they didn't go they didn't do fly
first class or they didn't do any they
didn't they got it they got an office
but it wasn't all that nice but they
just didn't have the DNA to know what
happens when instead of hiring one
person a quarter you hire one person a
month or one person a week and they just
didn't get the physics right of what a
VP really cost especially if they missed
the plan and what does a VP of sales
cost if the first one fails and the
first his first VP of sales failed I
told him whatever you do don't hire this
guy because I knew him he still hired
him he brought in four tail reps they
closed nothing the costs add up and all
of a sudden that three and a half
million is almost gone right so they
almost had to reboot strap after that
um and by the time they got to 10
million they were done right they're
like we're not going to raise any more
Capital right and um they didn't grow at
a hockey stick right but they never quit
right and they're at 34 million today
selling for 300 billion in 2023 and they
own half the company so maybe that
that's my answer cheers thank you thank
you yep
hi Jason hello thanks for coming I'm
over on the your other side oh sorry
yeah the audio seemed out of sync but
since it's the real world I wasn't sure
how the audio got out of sync it
happened once earlier on the screen I'm
like it's been a long two day great two
days but a long two days thanks for
coming yes absolutely
um I started want to start with a little
story because it kind of feeds into this
in 2017 me and my boyfriend went to
saster
um in 2017. 2017. is that at the Hilton
or
um I think so it was still in San
Francisco it was still it was crazy
2017. it was crazy at the Hilton the
escalators right yeah crazy crazy
not crazy and bad crazy yeah it was it
was good
um but we went we had two different jobs
at the time we went to all of the
disaster events and after the uh
conference my boyfriend proposed and uh
is that good very good okay
congratulations I thought there might
have been a few years
[Applause]
and we opened up our company it opened
up the week of our wedding uh that
wasn't planned um but it just happened
to be
um now we're evaluated at uh 4.3 million
and make about 1.5 in ARR as you can see
we're kind of Romantics
um and your pirates in Rome and
Romantics
um thought really really resonates with
me how do you find them I'm a very
animated romantic person so I start
talking to people and they mimic what I
want to hear and then when I get in a
meeting and I'm thinking I had these
passionate people they just blink at me
and I don't know how to the right people
in the room it's not unindeed so do you
have it so you feel like you feel like
you can
bring in folks into the hiring funnel
but you're having trouble figuring out
if they're the right fit is your problem
exactly are you are you the CEO or who's
are you my husband's a CEO and I'm the
CEO
okay well look
I mean I don't mean to oversimplify but
um maybe it's not the problem you think
it is like first of all
you know the number one job for Founders
is recruiting always not not for a
little while at first you you recruit
the initial team and then you recruit
one person at a time and then as you
scale you spend
your entire life recruiting everything
everything when you get big it never
ends and you better get good at it
um but you don't have to be great at all
parts of it some folks are good at top
of funnel creating excitement some folks
are very good at screening and have the
sixth sense of who's the right and um
hopefully either you your husband
hopefully he is has complementary skills
to you and if he doesn't hopefully
someone else on your team does don't
kill yourself you be the you create
interest you get folks I mean look
you're doing a million and a half in
revenue or two million like
you know you're not you're great you're
not nothing but like you've got to get
people excited they haven't heard of you
you know you're not Rippling or divvy or
launch Darkly or uipath or Loom so
you're doing you're activating people
um play to your strength and have him do
the tough interviews
okay thank you right yeah
hey Jason thanks for another great show
thanks for coming so a lot of what we've
been talking about in a SAS for the last
few years has been a lot of
specialization building out specialized
teams you know you kind of went from
sales to Str to inbound outbound
customer success Now growth marketing
customer marketing field CTO Solutions
Engineers how do you think about a
specialization in the new kind of era of
Efficiency do you have your has your
thoughts changed it's a really good
question so yeah in my time in SAS
um we all went from very light
specialization sdrs and AES was
specialization
um then we figured out we needed sales
Ops earlier revops became
professionalized CS became
professionalized there were always SCS
out there but true solution Architects
and all this game professionalized and
uh
uh and initially initially initially the
idea was efficiency
it was efficiency why do you want an AE
being a solution architect and on Border
a renewal expert an sgr an outbound
expert a technical expert right and um
and Salesforce kind of blazed the way
with back in the day 1se per like eight
AES and and and Aaron Ross and others in
the early days built on an outbound
function we all kind of copy that
um
but what got lost around 2019 or so was
that that team has to pay for itself
that team has to pay for itself and
what happened it started in 2018 2019
when things got heated and then got
overheated in 2021 is we saw a fact no
matter what anybody says they're they're
full of it on on a yielded basis sales
efficiency went way down so if you have
sales reps only closing 2x they're OTE
and you have a whole team of enablement
and you have a whole wonderful rev Ops
Team and to hold this team you're not
you're you're never going to get
profitable on your customers it will
never happen and so the goal of these
functions has been corrupted and for for
one for the handful when Capital was
free in 2021 it was okay because
it was okay if these previously
efficient functions really just enabled
faster growth right faster growth it was
okay but it wasn't okay in 2018 and it's
not okay today so
it was interesting when Sam blonde from
that was Sierra brex kicked it off he
talked about how even brex which is
which was still relatively SMB for a
long period how the AES had to do half
of their own deals to outbound and and
so he really described in a way a full
stack AE right and people talk about
that and I think that's great and Sam's
one of the best Revenue leaders but I
don't think that works for most people I
think most people need to specialize
closers should close an opener should
open and when the product gets
complicated you need some solution
Architects and sales engineers and when
you have more than four or five reps you
need some type of rev Ops to keep the
you don't want your VP of sales doing
all the scheduling and all the
management it doesn't make any sense but
you've gotta make a spreadsheet and
figure out what do these people cost and
sales has to pay for it
and a simple a simplistic way to boil it
all down is one we have to revert back
to sales
closing three to five times what they
take home three at least 3x for SMB at
least four extra mid Market 5x for
Enterprise and you have to budget in
there the cost of the support of the
team and so that may have to be it's
usually it could be more when things
were netting 21 but usually all that
extra stuff costs about 20 more when you
model it out so it really maybe need to
be 3.5 x and 4.5 x and 5.5x at scale and
do it in a way that you believe is a you
the CEO or the founder I know I run some
of the regional teams well okay well
however builds it or however you
Advocate like quotas got to go up
or a tank maybe quotas don't have to go
maybe that's wrong way to look but but
attainment has to go up right and you
have to pay for these resources and if
you're so if you're a manager right the
problem is too many managers were
trained the wrong way the last two years
they never had to understand the fully
burdened cost of these resources now
most even most VPS the sales don't
really understand the fully burdened
cost of the resources they want on their
team but they kind of get it like a
classic kind of gets it like I mean Sam
blonde I love to death Sterling I know
that's all but I love I'm not even sure
they knew the fully burdened cost of
their sales teams okay and they're
pretty damn good but your average uh
Team lead has no idea what this stuff
really costs right but you can distill
it down to three three x four x 5x plus
a kicker for these teams and if you're
not performing at that level it doesn't
make sense okay so that's all of it will
an inefficient era folks roll back some
of those functions
I hope not if they can reach the
attainment required to justify them if
there's no but if there's no proof of
Roi just like with your customers
they're going to get cut
if you have a large rev Ops Team and you
cannot prove that the sales rep
shouldn't just schedule themselves and
they shouldn't just submit their own
invoices themselves they shouldn't just
train themselves if you can't prove that
that leads to an extra deal or two it's
going to get cut back
it's going to get cut back if the sdrs
and the AES argue and they say they
sourced all the deals themselves you're
gonna have a small SDR team not a large
SDR team so they have to prove that they
are accretive that's the answer these
resources have they used to be accretive
they weren't accretive for about four
years they have to be accretive again
makes sense thank you yep
thank you
um yeah so I'm gonna I think you've
carnivas answered parts of my question
in the last two answers you've given
around uh like managing costs around
customers but I've been in the London
customer success market for uh over 12
years starting with a career with Yama
here which everyone's forgotten but
um and the thing that I've noticed in
the last year is that and along with my
peers is the dumbing down of customer
success and companies are no longer
looking to hire VPS of Cs and CS ccos
they're focusing more on the director
level ahead of or even below rather than
thinking hey I can bring in this person
that's got like high value High skills
that can maintain and grow my customer
base they're choosing to go for a lower
value person that just turns the nuts
and bolts of the customer function
around
um I don't know what's happening in the
US as well but what do you think that's
not my experience yeah the question is
are folks dumbing down CS
to save costs or for fewer issues I have
not seen that at all I have seen other
things that trouble me and bother me in
CS I see the opposite I see even even
with the flatness we see in the market
in stress I see
tons of founders of really good startups
that could not find a great vpscs
a great one I see every I see the
majority of startups I meet between 1
million and 10 million want a true VP of
Cs and don't have one they want one they
can't find the person so I don't have
that experience but
a few qualifications no one wants a
strategist at that phase
and what has happened there's many
things that have happened in the Cs
industry which if you've read saster for
since its Inception since 10 since 2012
I've been the biggest champion 10 years
ago of Cs gainsight we did a whole day
at their conference like eight years ago
where it was all saster content done
live because I was such a proponent of
Cs I'm not a huge proponent of Cs today
of the way people do it of this lazy way
I'm not a proponent of the laziness I'm
not a proponent of folks only wanting to
do strategy and not meeting with
customers okay and not wanting to learn
the product and I'm definitely not a
proponent and I can't fix this third one
of Cs main job being to drive Revenue up
I do think that CS a good CS team should
have an expansion goal okay but I don't
think CS we at saster we're tiny we get
threatened by our vendors at renewal
time that's the wrong way to run
customer success even me I'm I don't
want to talk to these people I don't
want to talk to any of all the software
Stacks we buy at faster and we're tiny
but we we're actually because saster is
not tiny for events we are a number of
vendors largest customers believe it or
not I will not talk to the Cs people
I will not talk to them they're either
not going to want to hear my feedback
and do nothing about it or they're going
to threaten me for more money if you
want to threaten me for more money just
do it by email like I'll just read the
I'll just read the email
okay and they're so lazy um
I will tell you a recent experience that
so like recently
there was a piece of software that we
wanted to buy those about fifty thousand
dollars
and we were going to substitute from
another vendor that was 40. so we were
going to pay more
and uh after about I mean we're a team
of seven for Seth we don't have a lot we
don't have a CIO or a lot and after
about two months tried to get to work we
couldn't get it to work
and they told us the Cs person told us
they would need an extra hundred
thousand dollars from us to get it to
work
and they would need a year of overlap so
we would have to pay them a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars because I would
have to run both products in parallel
without syncing the data and we'd have
to run two databases of saster attendees
two databases of all of this for for a
year for 100 and do all those soft costs
that's pretty bad that's what the Cs
team told us
so we said we'll we'll think on it we
didn't say no because once the if the
prospects is like frustrated that means
you still have a shot as soon as they
just go dark you've already like oh well
we'll think about it we stopped arguing
but then then one of the folks at this
company one of the founders happened to
email me and asked me how was going
and I'm like I don't want to tell you
because
we're business friends he's like no
how's it really going I'm like well you
know we tried for two months it's
supposed to be a one and a one hour
deployment and then they wanted 150 into
two years and it's like I'm like but
please don't tell anybody at your
company because I I don't want to and
then of course I get an email the next
day from the svb okay you know we need
it we need a two-hour call
but oh
and do it because I found out I do the
two hour call
listens we explain all the issues
they're oh that's very interesting we'll
get back to you never gets back to us
never fixes the issue nothing ever
happens
it's just enough already right it's
enough already so the so no one wants
that person on there no one wants to
make that higher that people are too
strategic they they the Cs leader want
to get on on the zoom but really she
just wanted to hear that things were
great you know she got in and said oh
we're sorry that this happened empathy
but what are you actually going to do to
fix it nothing
nothing no one does anything to fix so
no founder wants to hire the resource I
just described at an early stage startup
do they
but everyone wants an owner
here's the thing every founder is
desperate to who who's frustrated made a
hire that they thought was an owner that
isn't an owner raise your hand who in
this room everyone wants owners right so
I would worry less about whether you're
the SVP of Cs
I would talk about being the head of
customer Cs and explain how you're going
to be an owner and you're going to be
tactical and strategic and if you talk
to 50 CEOs between 1 and 10 million I
think you're going to get 10 jobs if you
approach it the right way that that's my
perspective from the field but I don't
see this dumbing down thing but I could
see how you might see it right salary
attached to the Rose now has gone down
about 30 in the London area
well maybe it has well I mean look
that's a different issue of what happens
with comp okay and
CS is a little different than sales but
let's step back for a minute sales comp
has gone down in 2023 because attainment
is lower
right I mean I did a saster survey of a
couple thousand folks so put it put it
on sash from last week or two you know
only like only teens of folks are
hitting 70 attainment so if your sales
team in 2021 was hitting 70 attainment
and they're hitting 30 today your sales
teams probably depends on how it all
works they're probably going to make 60
of what they made in 20 20 21 they might
make half and I'll tell you a lot of the
sales folks I know are just grouching
about it I don't make enough money
well how much have you closed well I've
closed I you know I don't really close
anything anymore well what do you expect
what do you expect you think 2021 was
normal
okay and and it's not the same in CS but
if you find the right job you may have
to prove yourself you may have to I know
it sounds terrible you may have to take
a salary cut to do it and I know I know
it sounds terrible but maybe some of it
is that the world got bloated and made
no sense for about 18 to 20 months and
it's life
right I know it's not what you want to
hear I have three jobs I'm okay it's my
peers that are struggling no I know but
I can't here's I know yeah uh and also
and the other thing to realize and I
don't know how long you've been doing
that role
cop also was dramatic went dramatically
up for about two years and you might not
have seen it if you got promoted in 2020
or 2021 you might not have realized how
much comp went up but it went up crazy
in many cases right and it can't stay
crazy right and so maybe what you're
seeing is Founders are like listen I
can't go to my team and ask them to take
a salary cut like I'd rather just hire a
more Junior person and let Bob quietly
leave
right I can't solve all the things but I
will say I can't solve whether it is and
startups pay less than big companies all
I can tell you on the other side is
every CEO wants an owner
and whether I can get you the comp you
want after 2021 probably not can you get
the position in the title yes can you
crush it for six months and ask for more
money or talk about it up front if you
raise the nrr 10 bring it up up front
ask for more variable comp approach it
as an owner and maybe you can bridge the
gap in the middle yeah
they're rubbish
I just think the the easy times of 2020
and the inflated NR were just they were
just corrupting right it just corrupted